The XIIIth Legion was perhaps the largest Legion at the
conclusion of the Great Crusade and, as such, Horus
resolved to lure them to the far reaches of the galaxy
and destroy them. During the great muster at Calth, the
Word Bearers betrayed the Ultramarines and wrought
terrible destruction upon the world and assembled might
of the XIIIth Legion. The Ultramarines suffered crippling
losses but the skill and righteous determination of their
commanders saw them emerge victorious from the trap
laid for them. The Underworld War on Calth would rage
on for many years to come and, as the rising Ruinstorm
cut the Legion off from the rest of the galaxy, the Shadow
Crusade engulfed the Five Hundred Worlds. The sons
of Guilliman, though wounded, stood firm against the
onslaught of the Word Bearers and World Eaters Legions
and, at great cost, cast them out of their domain.
By the time Ultramar was freed, Roboute Guilliman
believed the Emperor and Terra lost. Joined by the Dark
Angels and Blood Angels Legions stranded in the Ultima
Segmentum, as well as disparate elements of the Shattered
Legions, the Ultramarines looked to secure the war-torn
remains of their realm and rebuild their losses, creating
the Imperium Secundus. However, many thousands of its
warriors were yet abroad at the dark advent of civil war.
Across the galaxy they fought many battles against Traitor
forces, lending their strength to the Loyalists in defence
of hundreds of worlds, bolstering the efforts of many
Imperial commanders.
Only when the warp storms began to abate did the Legion
turn its gaze once more to the Throneworld and, alongside
its allies, moved to shatter the accursed world of Davin,
putting an end to the Ruinstorm. During the last days of
the Horus Heresy the Ultramarines would forge a path
back to the beleaguered heart of the Imperium, a vengeful
spear aimed at the exposed back of the Traitors, ready to
repay the debt of blood owed them by the Warmaster.
LEGIONES ASTARTES (ULTRAMARINES)
All models with this special rule are subject to the following provisions:
THE STRENGTH OF WISDOM
When rolling ToHit for a model with this special rule as part of a Shooting Attack, add +1 to the result of the roll
if the enemy unit targeted by the attack has already been the target of another friendly unit composed entirely of
models with this special rule in the same Shooting phase, and if the attacking model is within 6" of a model from
that friendly unit. This does not affect attacks made with the Blast or Barrage special rules.
THE ARSENALS OF ULTRAMAR
Models with this special rule gain access to unique
Wargear options (see Armoury of the Ultramarines on
page 294).
LORDS OF THE 500 WORLDS
AWarlord with this special rule may select a Warlord
Trait from the Ultramarines Warlord Trait list.
XIIITH LEGIONES ASTARTES
ULTRAMARINES
